
# Budget Tracker

## Overview

This project, Budget Tracker, was developed because I couldn't find any existing app or project that met my requirements.
The focus here is on functionality rather than aesthetics, so it may not look pretty, but it works.
Most of the project was written by me, with the JavaScript parts created with the help of ChatGPT and then slightly modified by me.
My main goal was to get the project up and running quickly, so I didn't spend time learning JavaScript for this purpose.
Yes, there might be bugs. Will I fix them? Maybe. For now, it serves my needs just fine.

Oh...this readme was partially generated by chatGPT as well xD
## Key Features

- **Multiple Accounts Tracking**: Manage multiple accounts effortlessly.
- **Transfers Between Accounts**: Easily add transfers between different accounts.
- **Unlimited Categories, Subcategories, and Items**: Track an infinite number of categories, subcategories, and individual items. The last one was added
to help in monitoring price changes over time.
- **Income and Spending Management**: Add and track your income and expenses.
- **Pie Chart for Spending**: Visualize spending by specific account, category, subcategory, and date ranges.
- **Historical Price Graph**: View historical prices of specific items (note: this feature might have some bugs).

## Project Setup

### Requirements

- **Python**: Preferably version 3.11 or newer, but it should work with other 3.X versions as well.
- **PostgreSQL**: Download and install from [here](https://www.postgresql.org/).

### Installation Steps

1. **Install PostgreSQL and set up an empty database.**

2. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository_url>
   cd <repository_directory>
   ```

3. **Create a .env File**: In the project's root directory, create a `.env` file with the following content:
   ```env
   SECRET_KEY=YourSecretKey (can be generated here: https://djecrety.ir/)

   DB_NAME=YourDBName
   DB_USER=YourDBUser
   DB_PASSWORD=YourDBPassword
   DB_HOST=localhost (or other)
   DB_PORT=YourDBPort (or leave empty)
   ```

4. **Create a Virtual Environment**:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   ```

5. **Activate the Virtual Environment**:
   ```bash
   # On Windows
   venv\Scripts\activate

   # On macOS and Linux
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

6. **Install Requirements**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

Now, you should be ready to run the Budget Tracker project. Enjoy managing your finances!
